.TH "gre-decap" 1 "January 2016" "ONICS 1.0"
.SH NAME
gre-decap
- Decapsulate [NV]GRE+IPv4+Ethernet encapsulated XPKT packets
.P
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBgre-decap\fP [\fB-n\fP] [\fB-f\fP \fIinfile\fP] [\fIstmt1\fP \fIstmt2\fP ...]
.P
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility takes a stream of XPKT formatted packets and for each
packet that is encapsulated in a GRE+IP+Ethernet tunnel, it
decapsulates the packet.  The \fBgre-decap\fP utility will then copy the
decapsulated stream to standard output.  As with other ONICS scripts,
the user can specify additional PML statements to modify the packet
fields during the decapsulation.  It is worth keeping in mind that these
modifications will occur after decapsulation.  Thus references to
protocol fields in \fBip\fP or \fBgre\fP (or alternately \fBeth\fP,
\fBip\fP and \fBnvgre\fP if the \fB-n\fP option is present) will refer
to the inner headers of the resutling packets.  Also note that the
modification statements will only apply to packets that the script
decapsulates; they will not modify other packets.
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.P
.IP "\fB-n\fP"
Decapsulate NVGRE packets instead of regular GRE packets.
.P
.IP "\fB-f\fP \fIinfile\fP"
Instead of reading the packet data from standard input, read the 
packet data from \fIinfile\fP
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
This would create a UDP/IP packet, encapsulate and then decapsulate it
again before saving it.
.nf

        echo "Hello World" | rawpkt | udpwrap | 
                             ipwrap | gre-encap | gre-decap > file.xpkt

.fi
.P
.SH AVAILABILITY
This utility should be available on all supported ONICS platforms.
.P
.SH AUTHOR
Christopher A. Telfer <ctelfer@gmail.com>
.P
.SH "SEE ALSO"
onics_proto(7), rawpkt(1), pml(1), ethwrap(1), ipwrap(1), gre-decap(1)
