.TH "ipfrag" 1 "October 2013" "ONICS 1.0"
.SH NAME
ipfrag - Fragment IP and IPv6 packets at a given MTU
.P
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBipfrag\fP [\fB-dh46\fP] [\fB-m\fP \fImtu\fP]  [\fB-a\fP \fIaction\fP]
[\fB-i\fP \fInextid\fP] [\fIinfile\fP [\fIoutfile\fP]]
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBipfrag\fP takes in a stream of XPKT formatted packets, searches for
the IPv4 and/or IPv6 packets in the stream and fragments them to a
specified maximum transmission unit (MTU) size.  The MTU is given as the
number of bytes of the maximum IPv4/IPv6 datagram starting from the IP
header.  \fBipfrag\fP copies datalink headers prior to the IPv4 or IPv6
header verbatim into each new fragment.  If neither \fB-4\fP nor
\fB-6\fP are specified as options, then \fBipfrag\fP defaults to
fragmenting IPv4 packets only.  Otherwise it fragments only those
protocols specified as options.
.P
There are certain packets that \fBipfrag\fP should not fragment and
others that it can not fragment.  It should not fragment packets with
the Don't Fragment bit set.  It can not fragment IPv6 packets that have
an AH header, already have an IPv6 fragment header or whose extension
headers are larger than the given MTU.  The \fB-a\fP option controls
what \fBipfrag\fP does when it encounters these.
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-a\fP \fIaction\fP"
Sets the action to take if \fBipfrag\fP encounters a packet that
requires fragmentation but should or can not be fragmented.  (see above)
If \fIaction\fP is "pass", then \fBipfrag\fP passes the packet through
unmodified.  If \fIaction\fP is "drop", then \fBipfrag\fP will drop the
packet.  If \fIaction\fP is "frag", then \fBipfrag\fP will fragment the
packet if possible and drop it otherwise.
.IP \fB-d\fP
If this option is specified then \fBipfrag\fP will set the Don't
Fragment bit on every fragment that it generates.  (\fBipfrag\fP will
not alter the Don't Fragment bits of packets that it doesn't fragment.)
.IP \fB-h\fP
Print the usage of the command and exit.
.IP "\fB-i\fP \fInextid\fP"
When fragmenting unfragmented packets, ONICS will set the IP ID field of
the packet if this option is set.  It will set the ID of the first set
of fragments to \fInextid\fP and increment by 1 for each datagram that
it subsequently fragments.
.IP "\fB-m\fP \fImtu\fP"
Set the MTU for fragmentation.  This is the maximum size of a packet
starting with its IPv4 or IPv6 header.  The default MTU as 1500 bytes.
\fBipfrag\fP will exit with an error if \fImtu\fP is less than the
minimum MTU for a protocol that it must fragment.  This is 68 bytes if
\fBipfrag\fP must fragment IPv4 packets and 1280 bytes if \fBipfrag\fP
must fragment IPv6 packets.
.IP \fB-4\fP
Fragment IPv4 packets.
.IP \fB-6\fP
Fragment IPv6 packets.
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
Fragment the IPv4 packets only in a stream with an IPv4 MTU of 576
bytes.
.nf

	ipfrag -m 576 input.xpkt output.xpkt

.fi
Fragment IPv4 datagrams at an MTU of 600 bytes and IPv6 datagrams at an
MTU of 1280 bytes.  Set the Don't Fragment bit on newly created IPv4
fragments.
.nf

	ipfrag -4 -m 600 input.xpkt | ipfrag -6 -m 1280 > output.xpkt

.fi
Fragment all packets coming in eth0 and send them out eth1 and visa
versa at an MTU of 800 bytes.  This basically creates a fragmenting
bridge between eth0 and eth1.
.nf

	pktin -I eth0 | ipfrag -m 800 | pktout eth1 &
	pktin -I eth1 | ipfrag -m 800 | pktout eth0 &

.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
This utility should be available on all supported ONICS platforms.
.P
.SH AUTHOR
Christopher A. Telfer <ctelfer@gmail.com>
.P
.SH "SEE ALSO"
ipreasm(1), pktin(1), pktout(1)
