.TH "oprotowrap" 1 "August 2013" "ONICS 1.0"
.SH NAME
ethwrap, ipwrap, ip6wrap, tcpwrap, udpwrap, icmpwrap, icmp6wrap 
- Wrap an XPKT formatted packet in a new header.
.P
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBethwrap\fP [\fB-f\fP \fIinfile\fP] [\fIstmt1\fP \fIstmt2\fP ...]
.P
\fBipwrap\fP [\fB-f\fP \fIinfile\fP] [\fIstmt1\fP \fIstmt2\fP ...]
.P
\fBip6wrap\fP [\fB-f\fP \fIinfile\fP] [\fIstmt1\fP \fIstmt2\fP ...]
.P
\fBtcpwrap\fP [\fB-f\fP \fIinfile\fP] [\fIstmt1\fP \fIstmt2\fP ...]
.P
\fBudpwrap\fP [\fB-f\fP \fIinfile\fP] [\fIstmt1\fP \fIstmt2\fP ...]
.P
\fBicmpwrap\fP [\fB-f\fP \fIinfile\fP] [\fIstmt1\fP \fIstmt2\fP ...]
.P
\fBicmp6wrap\fP [\fB-f\fP \fIinfile\fP] [\fIstmt1\fP \fIstmt2\fP ...]
.P
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
Each of these utilities read a stream of XPKT formatted packst  in from
standard input (or alternately a file if \fB-f\fP is specified) and wrap
the packet in a new header.  A user can chain invocations of these
together to build up a complete network packet.  Each utility also
allows the user to specify additional PML statements (see pml(1)) to 
execute after wrapping the header.  A script can use this feature to set
protocol fields to values other than the default.  Each script also
fixes length, checksum and datalink type fields for the packets before
outputting them.
.P
\fBethwrap\fP wraps each packet in an Ethernet II frame header.
\fBipwrap\fP wraps an IPv4 header around each packet.  \fBip6wrap\fP
wraps an IPv6 header around each packet.  \fBtcpwrap\fP wraps a TCP
header around each packet.  \fBudpwrap\fP wraps each packet in a UDP
header.  \fBicmpwrap\fP wraps each packet in an IPv4 ICMP header.
Finally, \fBicmp6wrap\fP wraps an ICMPv6 header around each packet.
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.P
.IP "\fB-f\fP \fIinfile\fP"
Instead of reading the packet data from standard input, read the 
packet data from \fIinfile\fP
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
Create a simple UDP packet from the command line:
.nf

        echo "Hello World" | rawpkt | udpwrap | 
                             ipwrap | ethwrap > file.xpkt

.fi
.P
A more complicated example building an ICMP response to a TCP packet
and then sending the packet:
.nf

        echo "Some payload data" | 
                rawpkt                                          |
                udpwrap  "udp.sport = 12345; udp.dport = 123;"  | 
                ipwrap   "ip.saddr = 192.168.0.1; 
                          ip.daddr = 10.0.0.3;"                 | 
                icmpwrap "icmp.type = 11; icmp.code = 0;"       | 
                ipwrap   "ip.daddr = 192.168.0.1; 
                          ip.saddr = 10.0.0.1;"                 | 
                ethwrap  "eth.src = 00:11:22:33:44:55; 
                          eth.dst = aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff;"         | 
                pktout eth0


.fi
.P
.SH AVAILABILITY
This utility should be available on all supported ONICS platforms.
.P
.SH AUTHOR
Christopher A. Telfer <ctelfer@gmail.com>
.P
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rawpkt(1), pml(1)
