.TH "pcapout" 1 "August 2013" "ONICS 1.0"
.SH NAME
pcapout - Read in XPKT and output them using the libpcap library.
.P
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBpcapout\fP [\fB-h\fP] [\fIinfile\fP [\fIoutfile\fP]]
.P
\fBpcapout\fP [\fB-h\fP] -i \fIifname\fP [\fIinfile\fP]
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpcapout\fP reads in a stream of XPKT packets and writes them out
using the libpcap library.  By default \fBpcapout\fP reads XPKT-format
packets from standard input and outputs a PCAP trace to standard output.
If \fIinfile\fP is specified, then \fBpcapout\fP reads the packets from
that file instead.  If the \fBoutfile\fP parameter is specified then
\fBpcapout\fP writes the PCAP trace to that file creating and truncating
it if necessary.  The \fB-i\fP option instructs the program to inject
packets to interface \fIifname\fP using libpcap instead of writing to a
file.
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.P
.IP \fB-h\fP
Print the usage of the command and exit.
.IP "\fB-i\fP \fIifname\fP"
Write packets to the interface \fIifname\fP.
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
.nf
Convert an XPKT file to a PCAP file:

	pcapout infile.xpkt outfile.pcap

Concatenate several XPKT files and save them in a PCAP file:

	cat capture1.xpkt capture2.xpkt | pcapout > outfile.pcap

Send a set of packets out eth0:

	pcapout -i eth0 capture.xpkt 
.fi
.P
.SH AVAILABILITY
As of ONICS 1.0 this program is available on all ONICS platforms that
have libpcap support.
.P
.SH AUTHOR
Christopher A. Telfer <ctelfer@gmail.com>
.P
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pcapin(1), pktin(1), pktout(1), pc2xpkt(1), xpkt2pc(1)
