.TH "pcapin" 1 "August 2013" "ONICS 1.0"
.SH NAME
pcapin - Read packets using libpcap and output them in XPKT format.
.P
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBpcapin\fP [\fB-hp\fP] [\fB-n\fP \fIifnum\fP] 
[\fIinfile\fP [\fIoutfile\fP]]
.P
\fBpcapin\fP [\fB-hp\fP] [\fB-n\fP \fIifnum\fP] [\fB-i\fP \fIifname\fP] 
[\fIoutfile\fP]
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpcapin\fP Reads in packets through the libpcap library and outputs
them in XPKT format.  It can read packets from PCAP trace files or
directly from network interfaces where libpcap supports such packet
capture.  If the \fB-i\fP option is not set then \fBpcapin\fP will read
packets from standard input by default or \fIinfile\fP if specified.
\fBpcapin\fP outputs the XPKT stream to standard output by default but
will open and create a file \fIoutfile\fP if that parameter is given.
If the \fI-i\fP option is set, it specifies a live interface for
\fBpcapin\fP to read from.  Reading from a live interface will most
likely require root privileges.
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.P
.IP \fB-h\fP
Print the usage of the command and exit.
.IP \fB-i\fP \fIifname\fP
Capture packets from interface \fIifname\fP.  By default, setting this
option will also cause the program to put the interface into promiscuous
mode.
.IP \fB-n\fP \fIifnum\fP
Tag all incoming packets with an XPKT_TAG_INIFACE tag that has an
interface number equal to \fIifnum\fP.  This is useful when packets can
come in from multiple interfaces to disambiguate their origin.  If the
user does not set this option, then \fBpcapin\fP will tag incoming
packets with interface number 0 by default.
.IP \fB-p\fP
Don't enable promiscuous mode when opening the interface.  This is only
meaningful if the \fB-i\fP option is specified.
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
.nf
Convert a packet capture file from PCAP to XPKT format:

    pcapin infile.pcap outfile.xpkt

Read in a stream of packets from eth0 and pass them to the
x2hpkt program:

    pcapin -i eth0 | x2hpkt

Bump packets from one interface to another:

    pcapin -i eth0 | pcapout -i eth1

.fi
.P
.SH AVAILABILITY
As of ONICS 1.0 this program is available on all ONICS platforms that
have libpcap support.
.P
.SH AUTHOR
Christopher A. Telfer <ctelfer@gmail.com>
.P
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pcapout(1), pktin(1), pktout(1), pc2xpkt(1), xpkt2pc(1)
