.TH "pcount" 1 "August 2013" "ONICS 1.0"
.SH NAME
pcount - Count packets through the utility.
.P
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBpcount\fB [\fB-q\fP] [\fB-s\fP \fIinterval\fP] \fIinfile\fP 
.P
\fBpcount\fB [\fB-q\fP] [\fB-s\fP \fIinterval\fP] \fB-p\fP 
[\fIinfile\fP [\fIoutfile\fP]]
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpcount\fP is a thin wrapper around pml(1) that counts packets and
packet byte lengths in XPKT format.  By default, \fBpcount\fP reads,
counts, and discards packets from standard input until it reaches an
end-of-file.  It then reports the number of packets and number of packet
bytes that it counted to standard error.  If \fIinfile\fP is specified
then \fBpcount\fP reads packets from that file instead.
.P
If the \fB-p\fP option is present, then \fBpcount\fP reads packets from
standard input and passes them to standard output.  As before, when
\fBpcount\fP reaches an end-of-file it reports the number of packets and
packet length bytes that it counted to standard error.  The user can
optionally override both the input to \fIinfile\fP and the output to
\fIoutfile\fP.
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-s\fP \fIinterval\fP"
Report the number of packets seen so far every \fIinterval\fP seconds.
This argument must be an integral number of seconds.
.IP "\fB-p\fP"
Do not discard packets but rather pass them through to output.
.IP "\fB-q\fP"
Print more terse output when exiting:  only the total number of packets
with no text verbage.
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
Count the number of packets in a capture file.
.nf

        pcount file.xpkt

.fi
.P
Count the packets coming out of eth0 as they go to a capture file.
Report the current count every 10 seconds.
.nf

        pktin eth0 | pcount -s 10 -p > capture.xpkt

.P
.SH AVAILABILITY
This utility should be available on all supported ONICS platforms.
.P
.SH AUTHOR
Christopher A. Telfer <ctelfer@gmail.com>
.P
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pml(1), pgrep(1)
