.TH "pdiff" 1 "August 2013" "ONICS 1.0"
.SH NAME
pdiff - Parse and print the differences between two packet traces.
.P
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBpdiff\fP [\fB-hMv\fP] [\fB-w \fIwsize\fP] \fIfile1\fP \fIfile2\fP
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpdiff\fP compares two stream of packets in XPKT format and reports
the edits with the smallest edit distance to transform the first stream
(in \fIfile1\fP) into the second stream (in \fIfile2\fP).  \fBpdiff\fP
considers insertions, removals and modifications at different levels of
granularity.  It will look for inserted/deleted/modified packets.  For
packets that are modified, it will look for inserted/deleted/modified
protocol PDUs.  For packets with modified PDUs, \fBpdiff\fP will look
for inserted/deleted/modified packet fields.
.P
When computing the minimum edit distance from \fIfile1\fP to
\fIfile2\fP, \fBpdiff\fP considers the cost of deleting a header or
field to be the cost of dropping the packet entirely times the fraction
of the bits that the header or field contains compared to the entire
packet.  Similarly, \fBpdiff\fP considers the cost of inserting a header
or packet field to be the cost of inserting a packet times the fraction
of the data to be inserted compared to the entire final resultant
packet.  The cost of a modification is generally approximately the cost
of a deletion plus an insertion.  Finally, \fBpdiff\fP also compares 
unparsed packet data.  Currently, this last level of comparison does not
involve a full edit distance calculation:  rather only a linear
comparison with an insert or removal if the lengths of the payload data
mismatch.
.P
\fBpdiff\fP uses the standard protocol decoding suite that comes with
ONICS to decode packet fields.  The program itself treats packet fields
as an abstract data type through the \fBprotoparse\fP and \fBns\fP
libraries.  Thus it has no protocol-specific data encoded within it.
Extending the ONICS protocol parsing automatically extends
\fBpdiff\fP's packet decoding capabilities.
.P
The standard algorithm for computing edit distance (especially when
including transposition or substitution) is an O(n^2) algoirthm (see
Damerau–Levenshtein distance).  For large packet traces, this can
quickly lead to an intractable problem.  To avoid an explosion in memory
and CPU time, \fBpdiff\fP computes differences in packet traces over
windows of packets.  The standard size of this window is 100 packets.
The upshot of this is that if a packet is delayed from one window of
packets to another, \fBpdiff\fP will indicate this as a drop within one
window and an insertion within another.  So, for the most accurate (or
useful) results, the window size should be about twice as large as the
largest expected amount of packet reordering.  However, one must keep in
mind that the larger the window, the longer the run-time for larger
traces and the more memory that \fBpdiff\fP must use for its
computations.
.P
Another windowing issue is that a single packet insertion or removal
would result in misaligned diff-windows between the two traces.  This
would lead to a diff with an insertion/drop pair in every window of
packets.  To compensate for this, \fBpdiff\fP will allow for up to
one-quarter of a window overlap when computing edit distances.  So, if
the window size is 100 packets, then \fBpdiff\fP may truncate one
window's reporting at 75 packets and start the next packets with the
last 25 packets from the previous window and filling out 100 packets
from there.  It can only do this if neither input file is standard
input.  The \fBpdiff\fP program attempts to be intelligent about where
to cut off window edit reporting.  It looks for the latest packet that
appears in both traces in the window.  Failing that, it looks for the
latest packet in the window in both traces that was modified.  If either
are available and are within the last quarter of the diff-window, then
\fBpdiff\fP truncates diff reporting at that packet and starts with the
next packet in both traces for the next diff-window.
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB-h\fP
Print the usage of the command and exit.
.IP \fB-M\fP
Prohibit modifications when computing the difference.  This can be useful
when you are just interested in seeing how packets got reordered.
.IP "\fB-w \fIwsize\fP"
Set the size of the diff window to \fBwsize\fP (default 100).  A size of
0 or less means to not set any size limit on the window.  This can lead
to a significant memory problem and a lengthy runtime.
.IP \fB-v\fP
Increase the verbosity of the output.  Specifying this option multiple
times further increases output verbosity.
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
Print the difference between two files:
.nf

    pdiff before.xpkt after.xpkt

.fi
Print the difference between two files with more verbose output:
.nf

    pdiff -v before.xpkt after.xpkt

.fi
Print the difference between two files with verbose output and
prohibiting modification:
.nf

    pdiff -vM before.xpkt after.xpkt

.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
This utility should be available on all supported ONICS platforms.
.P
.SH AUTHOR
Christopher A. Telfer <ctelfer@gmail.com>
.P
.SH "SEE ALSO"
onics_proto(7), x2hpkt(1)
