.TH "peseq" 1 "December 2016" "ONICS 1.0"
.SH NAME
peseq - Embed a sequence number into various fields in a packet stream
.P
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBpeseq\fB [\fB-hc\fP] [\fB-s\fP \fIiseq\fP] [\fIloc\fP ...]
[\fIinfile\fP [\fIoutfile\fP]]
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBpeseq\fP program takes a stream of packets and attempts to embed a
sequence number in each one.  It embeds the sequence number in one of
the packet fields of the of the packet or possibly in a portion of the
payload of the packet.  The \fIloc\fP arguments specify which locations
to attempt to embed the sequence number in and in which order to search
for the availability of those locations.  The \fBpeseq\fP program
searches the packet for the availability of the locations in the packet
in the order that they appeared on the command line.  It will embed the
sequence number in the first location that is available.
.P
If \fBpeseq\fP encounters a packet with no available locations (among
those given on the command line) then it will not increment the sequence
counter for that packet.  By default it will allow the packet to pass
through unmodified, but if the \fB-c\fP option is present, then it will
drop the packet instead.  Upon completion, \fBpeseq\fP prints out the
number of packets that it was unable to embed a sequence number into.
.P
By default, \fBpeseq\fP assigns sequence numbers starting from 1,
however the user can override this with the \fB-s\fP option.  The
sequence counter itself is 64 bits, but the size of the sequence number
embedded in the packet depends on the field that it is being embedded
into.  See the LOCATIONS section below for more details.
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.P
.IP \fB-c\fP
Enable strict mode:  if \fBpeseq\fP encounters a packet that it can not
embed a sequence number into, it will drop the packet rather than
allowing the packet to pass through unmodified.
.IP \fB-h\fP
Print out help information and exit.
.IP "\fB-s\fP \fIiseq\fP"
Assign \fIiseq\fP as the first sequence number (and continue to
increment from there).  By default, the first sequence number will be 1.
.P
.SH LOCATIONS
.P
.IP \fB-esrc\fP
Embed a sequence number in the last 32 bits of the Ethernet source MAC
address.
.IP \fB-edst\fP
Embed a sequence number in the last 32 bits of the Ethernet destination
MAC address.
.IP \fB-ipid\fP
Embed a sequence number in the IP identifier field of non-fragmented IP
packets.  This will be a 16-bit sequence number.
.IP \fB-ipsrc\fP
Embed a 32-bit sequence number in the source address of IPv4 packets
or a 64-bit sequence number in the source address of IPv6 packets.
.IP \fB-ipdst\fP
Embed a 32-bit sequence number in the destination address of IPv4
packets or a 64-bit sequence number in the destination address of IPv6
packets.
.IP \fB-v6fid\fP
Embed a 20-bit sequence number in the Flow ID field of IPv6 packets.
.IP "\fB-tpld\fP [\fIoff\fB,\fIlen\fB]"
Embed a \fIlen\fP-byte sequence number \fIoff\fP bytes from the start of
the TCP payload.  If the payload is not long enough to hold the entire
sequence number, \fBpeseq\fP considers this location unusable even if
the packet contains a TCP header and some of the sequence number could
be stored at the required location in the payload.  By default \fBoff\fP
is 0 and \fBlen\fP is 4.
.IP "\fB-upld\fP [\fIoff\fB,\fIlen\fB]"
Embed a \fIlen\fP-byte sequence number \fIoff\fP bytes from the start of
the UDP payload.  If the payload is not long enough to hold the entire
sequence number, \fBpeseq\fP considers this location unusable even if
the packet contains a UDP header and some of the sequence number could
be stored at the required location in the payload.  By default \fBoff\fP
is 0 and \fBlen\fP is 4.
.IP "\fB-ipld\fP [\fIoff\fB,\fIlen\fB]"
Embed a \fIlen\fP-byte sequence number \fIoff\fP bytes from the start of
the ICMP payload.  If the payload is not long enough to hold the entire
sequence number, \fBpeseq\fP considers this location unusable even if
the packet contains a ICMP header and some of the sequence number could
be stored at the required location in the payload.  By default \fBoff\fP
is 0 and \fBlen\fP is 4.
.IP "\fB-i6pld\fP [\fIoff\fB,\fIlen\fB]"
Embed a \fIlen\fP-byte sequence number \fIoff\fP bytes from the start of
the ICMPv6 payload.  If the payload is not long enough to hold the
entire sequence number, \fBpeseq\fP considers this location unusable
even if the packet contains a ICMPv6 header and some of the sequence
number could be stored at the required location in the payload.  By
default \fBoff\fP is 0 and \fBlen\fP is 4.
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
Embed a 32-bit sequence number in each TCP or UDP packet with at least 8
bytes of payload starting 4 bytes from the start of the payload.  Drop
any packets that do not meet these reqirements.
.nf

        peseq -c -tpld 4,4 -upld 4,4 infile.xpkt outfile.xpkt

.fi
Attempt to embed a sequence number in: the TCP payload, the IP ID, the
IP source address or the Ethernet source address in that order.  Allow
through "unsequenced" any packets that do not have a TCP payload, IPv4
header or Ethernet header.  Start the sequence numbers at 5.
.nf

        peseq -s 5 -tpld -ipid -isrc infile.xpkt outfile.xpkt

.fi
.P
.SH AVAILABILITY
This utility should be available on all supported ONICS platforms.
.P
.SH AUTHOR
Christopher A. Telfer <ctelfer@gmail.com>
.P
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pml(1), pcount(1), pxseq(1)
