.TH "pgrep" 1 "August 2013" "ONICS 1.0"
.SH NAME
pgrep - Filter out packets from an XPKT stream.
.P
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBpgrep\fB \fIpattern\fP [\fI-only\fP] [\fIinfile\fP [\fIoutfile\fP]]
.P
\fBpgrep\fB \fIlow_pat\fP \fI-to\fP \fIhigh_pat\fP
[\fIinfile\fP [\fIoutfile\fP]]
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpgrep\fP is a thin wrapper script around pml(1) to make it simple to
select a subset from a stream of XPKT formatted packets.  By default,
\fBpgrep\fP reads from standard input and writes to standard output.
However, the user can override this by specifying \fIinfile\fP to read
from and \fIoutfile\fP to write to.
.P
The caller can specify one or two patterns to match packets on.  The
patterns can be a PML expression or a number.  If the pattern is a
number, say \fIn\fP, then it matches the \fIn\fPth packet in the packet
stream.  When \fBpgrep\fP has only a single pattern argument, then it
allows only packets that match \fIpattern\fP to pass through to the
output.  When \fBpgrep\fP has two patterns, then \fBpgrep\fP allows
packets in the range from the first packet to match \fIlow_pat\fP to the
first packet to match \fIhigh_pat\fP inclusve through to the output.
\fBpgrep\fP can match multiple such ranges in a single stream.
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
Extract the 7th packet from a a file
.nf

        pgrep 7 infile.xpkt outfile.xpkt

.fi
Extract the IPv6 packets from a packet capture:
.nf

        pgrep ip6 infile.xpkt outfile.xpkt

.fi
Extract packets 3 to 25 from a packet capture:
.nf

        pgrep 3 -to 25 infile.xpkt outfile.xpkt

.fi
Extract the packets between a TCP SYN packet and a TCP FIN packet:
.nf
        pgrep "tcp and tcp.syn" -to "tcp and tcp.fin" \
                infile.xpkt outfile.xpkt

.fi
Dump the ICMP TTL Exceeded packets seen on eth0 to x2hpkt:
.nf

        pktin eth0 | pgrep "icmp and icmp.type == 11" | x2hpkt

.fi
.P
.SH AVAILABILITY
This utility should be available on all supported ONICS platforms.
.P
.SH AUTHOR
Christopher A. Telfer <ctelfer@gmail.com>
.P
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pml(1), pcount(1)
