.TH "pktrel" 1 "August 2013" "ONICS 1.0"
.SH NAME
pktrel - Release packets according to a time specifications.
.P
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBpktrel\fP [\fB-h\fP] [\fB-d\fP \fIdelay\fP] [\fB-i\fP \fIinterval\fP] 
[\fIinfile\fP [\fIoutfile\fP]]
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpktrel\fP reads in packets in XPKT format and releases them according
to a time specification.  By default \fBpktrel\fP releases the packets
according to the difference in timestamps in the packet stream.
This assumes that the packets are sorted according to their timestamps.
If this is not true, \fBpktrel\fP will still release all the packets,
but they will not come out in timestamp order or with the appropriate
delay between some packets.  \fBpktrel\fP can also release packets at 
a regular interval by using the \fB-i\fP option.
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-d\fP \fIdelay\fP"
Delay the transmission of the first packet by \fIdelay\fP seconds.
\fIdelay\fP may be a floating point value.
.IP \fB-h\fP
Print the usage of the command and exit.
.IP "\fB-i\fP \fIinterval\fP"
Instead of releasing packets according to their timestamps, release them
at regular \fIinterval\fP second intervals.  \fIinterval\fP may be a 
floating point value.
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
Replay a captured stream with the same inter-packet intervals observed
in the capture.
.nf

    pktrel capture.xpkt | pktout eth0

.fi
Replay a set of packets releasing each packet 0.1 seconds after the
previous one.  Delay the transmission of the first packet by 5.5
seconds.
.nf

    pktrel -i 0.1 -d 5.5 packets.xpkt | pktout eth0

.fi
.P
.SH AVAILABILITY
This utility should be available on all supported ONICS platforms.
.P
.SH AUTHOR
Christopher A. Telfer <ctelfer@gmail.com>
.P
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pktout(1), pktdemux(1), pktdemux(1), pcapout(1)
