.TH "psort" 1 "August 2015" "ONICS 1.0"
.SH NAME
psort - Sort a set of packets.
.P
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBpsort\fP [\fB-hr\fP] [\fB-k\fP \fIkeytype\fP] 
[\fIinfile\fP [\fIoutfile\fP]]
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpsort\fP reads in a stream of XPKT formatted packets and sorts them
according to a key specified by the user.  By default \fBpsort\fP reads
from standard input and writes to standard output.  If \fIinfile\fP is
specified then \fBpsort\fP reads from that file instead.  If
\fIoutfile\fP is specified then \fBpsort\fP writes to it instead.  By
default, \fBpsort\fP sorts packets in ascending order.
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB-h\fP
Print the usage of the command and exit.
.IP "\fB-k\fP \fIkeytype\fP"
The \fIkeytype\fP argument can be one of xpkt.timestamp, xpk.tflowid,
xpkt.class, xpkt.seq", xpkt.appinfo, xpkt.+appinfo or any parsed packet
field.  The default is xpkt.timestamp.  Each of the key fields that
start with "xpkt." refer to an XPKT tag type and the metadata it
represents.  The xpkt.appinfo keytype is the data in the
XPKT_TAG_APPINFO tag without the 2-byte subtype field.  The
xpkt.+appinfo keytype includes the 2-byte subfield.
.IP \fB-q\fP
Decrease verbosity.
.IP \fB-r\fP
Perform a reverse sort (decending instead of ascending order).
.IP \fB-s\fP
Enable strict mode.  In strict mode \fBpsort\fP will abort with an error
message if it is unable to build the key for any packet.  This can occur
if the key is too large or if \fBpsort\fP encounters a packet that lacks
a field that it is supposed to build a key for.
.IP \fB-v\fP
Increase verbosity.
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
Sort a set of packets by timestamp:
.nf

        psort input.xpkt output.xpkt

.fi
Read in the TCP packets from a packet trace and sort them by flow ID in
reverse:
.nf

        pfind tcp infile.xpkt | psort -r -k flowid > outfile.xpkt

.fi
.P
Sort a set of packets by IPv4 source address and then IPv4 destination 
address and then IPv4 TTL.
.nf

        psort -k ip.saddr -k ip.daddr -k ip.ttl \\
                infile.xpkt outfile.xpkt

.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
This utility should be available on all supported ONICS platforms.
.P
.SH AUTHOR
Christopher A. Telfer <ctelfer@gmail.com>
.P
.SH "SEE ALSO"
onics_proto(7), pml(1), pfind(1), rawpkt(1), x2hpkt(1)
