.TH "split" 1 "September 2013" "ONICS 1.0"
.SH NAME
psplit - Split packets into trace files by flow ID.
.P
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBpsplit\fP [\fB-ahr\fP] [\fB-p\fP \fIprefix\fP] 
[\fB-s\fP \fIsuffix\fP] [\fIinfile\fP]
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpsplit\fP reads in a stream of XPKT format packets and splits them
into separate trace files based on their XPKT tagged flow IDs.  By
default, \fBpsplit\fP stores packets in files named
"flow.\fIflowid\fP.xpkt".  The \fB-p\fP and \fB-s\fP options can change
in the prefix and suffix respecitively.  The \fB-p\fP option can also
select a separate directory to store the file as the prefix can be a
file path.  \fBpsplit\fP will store packets that are not tagged with a 
flow ID in a file named \fIprefix\fPnofid\fIsuffix\fP.  \fBpsplit\fP
will check to see whether a flow filename already exists by default and
will exit if the file is present.  The user can override this with the
\fB-a\fP option.
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB-a\fP
Do not check to see if a trace file exists.  Instead, just 
append packets to the file (creating the file if it doesn't exist).
.IP \fB-h\fP
Print the usage of the command and exit.
.IP "\fB-p\fP \fIprefix\fP"
Set the prefix of the trace files (including possible directory paths)
to \fIprefix\fP.  \fIprefix\fP can be a relative or absolute directory
path.  The default prefix is "flow.".
.IP \fB-r\fP
Remove the flow ID tag before writing to the trace file.
.IP "\fB-s\fP \fIsuffix\fP"
Set the suffix of the trace files to \fIsuffix\fP.  The default prefix
is ".xpkt".
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
Create a directory 'flows'.  Then track the flows in the file using
nft(1) and split the packets into per-flow trace files in that
directory.  Remove the flow IDs before storing the packets in trace
files.
.nf

        mkdir flows
        nft -q infile.xpkt | psplit -r -p flows/flow.

.fi
Use PML to tag ARPs in flow 1, localhost packets in flow 2, packets to
or from 192.168.0.0/24 in flow 3.  Then separate packets by flow
removing the flow ID before writing them.
.nf

        pml -e '?- arp -? { meta_set_flowid(0, 1); send; }
                ?- ip and ip.saddr ~= 127.0.0.0/8 or 
                   ip.daddr ~= 127.0.0.0/8- ? {
                        meta_set_flowid(0, 2); 
                        send;
                }
                ?- ip and ip.saddr ~= 192.168.0.0/24 or 
                   ip.daddr ~= 192.168.0.0/24 -? {
                        meta_set_flowid(0, 3); 
                        send;
                }' infile.xpkt | psplit

.fi
Read packets off the wire putting each packet in its own file:
.nf

        pktin eth0 |
		pml -e "int N=0; { N=N+1; meta_set_flowid(0, N); }" |
                psplit -r -p "packet_"
	
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
This utility should be available on all supported ONICS platforms.
.P
.SH AUTHOR
Christopher A. Telfer <ctelfer@gmail.com>
.P
.SH "SEE ALSO"
nft(1), pktin(1), pml(1)
