.TH "pxseq" 1 "December 2016" "ONICS 1.0"
.SH NAME
pxseq - Extract a packet sequence number from fields in a packet
.P
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBpxseq\fB [\fB-hc\fP] [\fB-s\fP \fIiseq\fP] [\fIloc\fP ...]
[\fIinfile\fP [\fIoutfile\fP]]
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBpxseq\fP program assigns sequence numbers to each packet in a 
packet stream usually by extracing the sequence number from some field
in the packet.  The program stores the sequence number in th XPKT
sequence number metadata associated with the packet.  \fBPxseq\fP
receives a set of locations (denoted \fIloc\fP above) to search for in
each packet.  It extracts the sequence number from the first location
that it finds available in the packet searching in the order given on
the command line.  If there are no \fIloc\fP arguments given, then pxseq
assigns monotonically incrementing sequence numbers to the packets
starting at 1 by default.  The \fB-s\fP option can override the starting
sequence number when in this mode.
.P
If \fBpxseq\fP encounters a packet with no available locations to
extract from, then it will allow the packet to pass through unmodified.
However, if the \fB-c\fP option is specified, \fBpxseq\fP will discard
packets for which it can not assign a sequence number.  Upon completion,
\fBpxseq\fP prints out the number of unsequenced packets it processed.
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.P
.IP \fB-c\fP
Enable strict mode:  if \fBpxseq\fP encounters a packet that it can not
extract a sequence number from, it will drop the packet rather than
allowing the packet to pass through unmodified.
.IP \fB-h\fP
Print out help information and exit.
.IP "\fB-s\fP \fIiseq\fP"
If there are no sequence locations specified, then \fBpxseq\fP assigns
sequence numbers to packets linearly.  The \fB-s\fP option overrides the
starting sequence number to \fIiseq\fP instead of 1.
.P
.SH LOCATIONS
.P
.IP \fB-esrc\fP
Extract the sequence number from the last 32 bits of the Ethernet
source MAC address.
.IP \fB-edst\fP
Extract the sequence number from the last 32 bits of the Ethernet
destination MAC address.
.IP \fB-ipid\fP
Extract the sequence number from the IP identifier field of 
non-fragmented IP packets.  This will be a 16-bit sequence number.
.IP \fB-ipsrc\fP
Extract the 32-bit sequence number in the source address of IPv4 packets
or the 64-bit sequence number in the source address of IPv6 packets.
.IP \fB-ipdst\fP
Extract the 32-bit sequence number from the destination address of IPv4
packets or the 64-bit sequence number from the destination address of
IPv6 packets.
.IP \fB-v6fid\fP
Extract the 20-bit sequence number from the Flow ID field of IPv6
packets.
.IP "\fB-tpld\fP [\fIoff\fB,\fIlen\fB]"
Extract a \fIlen\fP-byte sequence number \fIoff\fP bytes from the start
of the TCP payload.  If the payload is not long enough to hold the
entire sequence number, \fBpxseq\fP considers this location unusable
even if the packet contains a TCP header and some of the sequence number
could be stored at the required location in the payload.  By default
\fBoff\fP is 0 and \fBlen\fP is 4.
.IP "\fB-upld\fP [\fIoff\fB,\fIlen\fB]"
Extract a \fIlen\fP-byte sequence number \fIoff\fP bytes from the start
of the UDP payload.  If the payload is not long enough to hold the
entire sequence number, \fBpxseq\fP considers this location unusable
even if the packet contains a UDP header and some of the sequence number
could be stored at the required location in the payload.  By default
\fBoff\fP is 0 and \fBlen\fP is 4.
.IP "\fB-ipld\fP [\fIoff\fB,\fIlen\fB]"
Extract a \fIlen\fP-byte sequence number \fIoff\fP bytes from the start
of the ICMP payload.  If the payload is not long enough to hold the
entire sequence number, \fBpxseq\fP considers this location unusable
even if the packet contains a ICMP header and some of the sequence
number could be stored at the required location in the payload.  By
default \fBoff\fP is 0 and \fBlen\fP is 4.
.IP "\fB-i6pld\fP [\fIoff\fB,\fIlen\fB]"
Extract a \fIlen\fP-byte sequence number \fIoff\fP bytes from the start
of the ICMPv6 payload.  If the payload is not long enough to hold the
entire sequence number, \fBpeseq\fP considers this location unusable
even if the packet contains a ICMPv6 header and some of the sequence
number could be stored at the required location in the payload.  By
default \fBoff\fP is 0 and \fBlen\fP is 4.
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
Extract sequence numbers from bytes 4-7 of the payload of TCP and UDP
packets.
.nf

        pxseq -c -tpld 4,4 -upld 4,4 infile.xpkt outfile.xpkt

.fi
Assign a fresh sequence number to each packets coming from the wire
before processing with a PML program.
.nf

	pktin eth0 | pxseq | pml -f someprog ...

.fi
.P
.SH AVAILABILITY
This utility should be available on all supported ONICS platforms.
.P
.SH AUTHOR
Christopher A. Telfer <ctelfer@gmail.com>
.P
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pml(1), pcount(1), peseq(1)
