.TH "pxtr" 1 "October 2016" "ONICS 1.0"
.SH NAME
pxtr - Extract packets in a range from a packet stream
.P
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBpxtr\fB [\fB-m\fP] \fIpattern\fP[,\fIpattern2\fP] 
[\fIinfile\fP [\fIoutfile\fP]]
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpxtr\fP is a thin wrapper script around pml(1) to make it simple to
extract a range of packets.  By default, \fBpxtr\fP reads from standard
input and writes to standard output.  However, the user can override
this by specifying \fIinfile\fP to read from and \fIoutfile\fP to write
to.
.P
The caller must specify one or two packet patterns.  If the caller gives
a single pattern, then \fBpxtr\fP will use the pattern for the upper and
lower bound of the extraction range.  Otherwise, the first pattern
specifies the start of the range of packets to extract and the second
pattern specifies the end of the range.  (\fBpxtr\fP will include the
packet matching the end of the range in the extraction.)  In order to
specify two patterns, the caller must give one pattern followed by a
commma (',') followed by the second pattern.  Two patterns must occur
as a single argument to \fBpxtr\fP.  The best way to ensure this is to
surround the two patterns with quotes.
.P
Each pattern must have one of the following forms:
.IP "\fInum\fP"
This matches the \fInum\fPth packet in the stream.
.IP "\fBANY\fP"
This matches any packet in the stream.
.IP "\fBNONE\fP"
This matches no packet in the stream.
.IP "'{' \fIPML_expression\fP '}'"
This matches whatever the PML expression specifies.
.P
\fBpxtr\fP can match multiple ranges in a single stream if the user
specifies the \fB-m\fP option.  For example, if \fB-m\fP is given
and the pattern argument is "{udp and udp.sport == 53},{ip6}",
\fBpxtr\fP may select multiple ranges of packets each starting with a
UDP packet destined to port 53 and ending with an IPv6 packet.  If no
packet ever matches the second pattern in a two-pattern range,
\fBpxtr\fP will continue extracing packets through to the end of the
packet stream.
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
Extract the 7th packet from a a file
.nf

        pxtr 7 infile.xpkt outfile.xpkt

.fi
Extract packets 3 to 25 from a packet capture:
.nf

        pxtr 3,25 infile.xpkt outfile.xpkt

.fi
Extract the packets between a TCP SYN packet and a TCP FIN packet:
.nf

        pxtr "{tcp and tcp.syn},{tcp and tcp.fin}" \\
                infile.xpkt outfile.xpkt

.fi
.P
.SH AVAILABILITY
This utility should be available on all supported ONICS platforms.
.P
.SH AUTHOR
Christopher A. Telfer <ctelfer@gmail.com>
.P
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pml(1), pcount(1), pflt(1)
