.TH "tcpcarve" 1 "November 2022" "ONICS 1.0"
.SH NAME
nftrk - Track network flows and tag packets with a flow ID.
.P
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBtcpcarve\fP [\fB-hp\fP] [\fB-p prefix\fP] [\fIinfile\fP]
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtcpcarve\fP is a utility to extract the application data from a
TCP stream.  \fBtcpcarve\fP expects to receive either a stream of TCP
packets from standard input or from a file all from the same TCP
connection. It reads from standard input unless the \fIinfile\fP
parameter is present in which case it reads from that file instead.
.P
The \fBtcpcarve\fP utility generates a series of numbered files.  It
creates a new file whenever it observes data in the TCP stream in a "new
direction".  That is to say, if it was extracting data sent by the
client of the connection and sees a packet from the server with data, it
closes the existing file opens a new one and starts filling it with data
until (from the server) until the client sends data again or until the
TCP connection ends.
.P
By default the files are named "data.NNNN.c2s" or "data.NNNN.s2c" where
NNNN is a monotonically increasing number regardless of the suffix of
the file.  The client-sent data goes into files with the suffix ".c2s"
and the server-sent data goes into files with the suffix ".s2c".  The
user can override the prefix of the file with the \fB-p\fP option.
.P
One
can easily merge all the from the client or server into a single file by
concatenating the files in ascending numeric order e.g.:
.nf

	cat data.*.c2s > client-data.txt

.fi
However, for request/response protocols like HTTP, the default split
should probably extract the data stream in a reasonable way.  
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.P
.IP \fB-h\fP
Print the usage of the command and exit.
.IP \fB-p prefix\fP
Use \fBprefix\fP (which may include directory assuming the directories
already exists) as the prefix for the files to generate.  If not
specified, the files will start with "data.".
.IP \fB-q\fP
Quiet mode:  do not report non-TCP packets, packets from other flows or
unexpected packets in the data stream.
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
Extract the TCP connections from a data stream and then extract the
application data from each TCP stream.
.nf

	pxtr '{tcp}' | nftrk -q | psplit
	for f in flow.* ; do
		fid=`echo $f | sed -e 's/^flow.//' -e 's/.xpkt$//'`
		tcpcarve -p "tcp-$fid." $f
	done
		

.fi
.P
.SH AVAILABILITY
This utility should be available on all supported ONICS platforms.
.P
.SH AUTHOR
Christopher A. Telfer <ctelfer@gmail.com>
.P
.SH "SEE ALSO"
nftrk(1), pml(1), psplit(1), pxtr(1)
