.TH "vxlan-decap" 1 "January 2016" "ONICS 1.0"
.SH NAME
vxlan-decap
- Decapsulate VXLAN+UDP+IPv4+Ethernet encapsulated XPKT packets
.P
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBvxlan-decap\fP [\fB-f\fP \fIinfile\fP] [\fIstmt1\fP \fIstmt2\fP ...]
.P
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility takes a stream of XPKT formatted packets and for each
packet that is encapsulated in a VXLAN+UDP+IP+Ethernet tunnel, it
decapsulates the packet.  The \fBvxlan-decap\fP utility will then copy
the decapsulated stream to standard output.  As with other ONICS
scripts, the user can specify additional PML statements to modify the
packet fields during the decapsulation.  It is worth keeping in mind
that these modifications will occur after decapsulation.  Thus
references to protocol fields in \fBeth\fP, \fBip\fP, \fBudp\fP and
\fBvxlan\fP will refer to the inner headers of the resutling packets.
Also note that the modification statements will only apply to packets
that the script decapsulates; they will not modify other packets.
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.P
.IP "\fB-f\fP \fIinfile\fP"
Instead of reading the packet data from standard input, read the 
packet data from \fIinfile\fP
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
This would create a UDP/IP packet, encapsulate and then decapsulate it
again before saving it.
.nf

        echo "Hello World" | rawpkt | udpwrap | 
                             ipwrap | vxlan-encap | vxlan-decap > file.xpkt

.fi
.P
.SH AVAILABILITY
This utility should be available on all supported ONICS platforms.
.P
.SH AUTHOR
Christopher A. Telfer <ctelfer@gmail.com>
.P
.SH "SEE ALSO"
onics_proto(7), rawpkt(1), pml(1), ethwrap(1), ipwrap(1), vxlan-decap(1)
