.TH "x2hpkt" 1 "August 2013" "ONICS 1.0"
.SH NAME
x2hpkt - Convert a stream of packets from XPKT format to hex dump 
format.
.P
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBx2hpkt\fP [\fB-fhx\fP] [\fIinfile\fP [\fIoutfile\fP]]
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBx2hpkt\fP reads in a stream of XPKT-formatted packets and outputs
them in a canonical hexadecimal dump format annotated with decoded
packet fields.  By default \fBx2hpkt\fP reads the packets from standard
input and outputs them to standard output.  If \fIinfile\fP is specified
then \fBx2hpkt\fP reads from it instead.  If \fIoutfile\fP is specified,
then \fBx2hpkt\fP opens, creates and truncates that file before writing
its output to that file.
.P
\fBx2hpkt\fP uses the standard protocol decoding suite that comes with
ONICS to decode packet fields.  The program itself treats packet fields
as an abstract data type through the \fBprotoparse\fP and \fBns\fP
libraries.  Thus it has no protocol-specific data encoded within it.
Extending the ONICS protocol parsing automatically extends
\fBx2hpkt\fP's packet decoding capabilities.
.P
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB-f\fP
Flush the output for a packet after each packet is read.  This can be
useful if packets are coming in live and subsequent programs should
receive input packets in a timely manner.
.IP \fB-h\fP
Print the usage of the command and exit.
.IP \fB-x\fP
Dump the XPKT header along with every packet.  This allows a program
reading in the hex dump format to reproduce the original input file
completely.  By default, \fBx2hpkt\fP only dumps the actual packet data.
.P
.SH "HEXPKT FORMAT"
.P
The \fBhexpkt\fP format is a fairly typical hexadecimal representation
of binary data that is used by various tools.  Each blank line or line
that starts with a '#' is ignored entirely.  Every other line should
have the form:
.nf

	\fIaddress\fP: \fIhexval\fP [\fIhexval\fP ...] |\fItext\fP ...|

.fi
The \fIaddress\fP is specified in hexidecimal.  It specifies the offset
in the file where the data on the rest of the line should reside.
\fBx2hpkt\fP outputs individual bytes separately in the hex dump with
each byte represented as a 2-digit hexadecimal number.  (There is no
prefix to specify that the value is in hexadecimal such as "0x" for
example.)  Other programs (e.g. tcpdump) will output 2- or 4-byte values
grouped together.  The portion of the hexdump between the '|' characters
displays the ASCII text values for most printable non-special
characters.  \fBx2hpkt\fP prints characters like tabs, newlines, etc... 
as well as bytes that do not correspond to a printable ASCII characters
with the '.' character.
.P
The \fBhexpkt\fP format imposes two additional rules for the hex dump
that is not present in other dumps.  First, packets are delimited by
blank lines and so must not contain any blank lines within them.
Second, addresses are relative to the start of a packet.  Thus,
addresses in a \fBhexpkt\fP stream 'reset' at the start of every packet.
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
Dump a set of packets to 'less' for browsing:
.nf

    x2hpkt capture.xpkt | less

.fi
Convert packets from PCAP to XPKT to hexdump to XPKT to PCAP:
.nf

    pc2xpkt capture.pcap | x2hpkt -x | h2xpkt | 
	xpkt2pc > recap.pcap

.fi
Dump packets captured from nework interface eth0:
.nf

    pktin eth0 | x2hpkt -f | less

.fi
.P
.SH AVAILABILITY
This utility should be available on all supported ONICS platforms.
.P
.SH AUTHOR
Christopher A. Telfer <ctelfer@gmail.com>
.P
.SH "SEE ALSO"
h2xpkt(1), onics_proto(7), pc2xpkt(1), pcapin(1), pcapout(1), xpkt2pc(1)
