.TH "xtsscale" 1 "September 2013" "ONICS 1.0"
.SH NAME
xtsscale - Scale the timestamps in an XPKT stream
.P
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBxtsscale\fB \fIfactor\fP [\fIinfile\fP [\fIoutfile\fP]]
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBxtsscale\fP is a wrapper script around pml(1) to scale the packets in
an XPKT stream by some factor.  The packet stream is assumed to contain
packets in monotonically increasing timestamp order.  If the script
encounters a packet with no XPKT timestamp or with one in the past
relative to the first timestamp, it will drop the packet.  The
\fIfactor\fP should be a positive real number (with decimal places 
optional).  For example 5, 0.3 and 123.456 are all valid factors.
\fBxtsscale\fP will multiply the relative timestamp (relative to the
first timestamp it encounters) by \fIfactor\fP, compute a new relative
timestamp and set that timestamp in the packet.
.P
This utility can come in handy should one be replaying packets from a
packet stream by timestamp (see pktrel(1)) and one wishes to replay 
them faster or slower than their original capture speed.
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
Scale the timestamps in a packet trace by a factor of 2 to make the
inter-packet times double those of the original packet trace and then
send them out onto the wire.
.nf

	xtsscale 2 infile.xpkt | pktrel | pktout eth0

.fi
Sort a packet trace by timestamp (for sanity) and decrease their
inter-packet timestamp intervals by about a 1/3rd.
.nf

	psort infile.xpkt | xtsscale 0.333333 > outfile.xpkt

.fi
.P
.SH AVAILABILITY
This utility should be available on all supported ONICS platforms.
.P
.SH AUTHOR
Christopher A. Telfer <ctelfer@gmail.com>
.P
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pml(1), psort(1), pktrel(1)
